[general]
name=Eurekarto SVG Tools
qgisMinimumVersion=3.40
qgisMaximumVersion=4.99
version=1.6.0
author=Blanche Lambert, Eurêkarto
email=contact@eurekarto.com
description=Export a print layout map frame to a grouped, named SVG for Illustrator or Inkscape.
about=Created by Blanche Lambert for Eurêkarto in 2026. Writes a map frame to one SVG file with a group per layer, a group per symbology class and a named group per feature, polygons optionally joined on an identifier field such as an ISO code. English and French interfaces. Copyright © 2026 Blanche Lambert / Eurêkarto. GNU GPL v2 or later.
homepage=https://github.com/eurekarto/Eurekarto-SVG-Tools
repository=https://github.com/eurekarto/Eurekarto-SVG-Tools
tracker=https://github.com/eurekarto/Eurekarto-SVG-Tools/issues
category=Vector
icon=img/icon.png
experimental=False
deprecated=False
hasProcessingProvider=True
license=GPL-2.0-or-later
tags=svg,export,illustrator,inkscape,cartography,layout,cad
changelog=1.6.0 Labels are grouped by layer. Where QGIS exposes its staged render job that job is used; otherwise a first pass records where the engine places every label and each layer is then rendered alone with the other layers labels declared as obstacles, so the placement holds. The style-only group Qt wraps a drawing in is dissolved into its children. Each point symbol is now written as a single group carrying its placement and its style, instead of the three or four nested groups Qt and the placement left behind, and a named entity holding one marker carries it directly rather than wrapping it again. Symbols and legends are now rendered with vector output forced, as QGIS own SVG export does, so a marker carrying an opacity or an effect comes out as paths instead of an embedded image. When an effect can only be drawn as an image, the log names the class instead of embedding it quietly.
    1.5.0 The layout legends on the map frame page are embedded, painted by QGIS itself so their symbols, fonts and frame match the layout, with their text kept as editable text. Labels are embedded too, placed by QGIS's own labelling engine, with the renderer's transparent sheets, empty intermediate images and empty groups removed. Legend text stays editable text. Point symbols are drawn by QGIS once per class and copied at each point, so every built-in marker shape is kept. Heatmap layers are embedded as images. Rule-based layers are exported again: their symbol is now read through symbolsForFeature, which every renderer implements. A layer set to No symbols gives only its labels, or unstyled shapes when it carries named groups.
    1.4.0 Simplification no longer deforms shapes: it works part by part, so a dense mainland never costs an island its outline, and the tolerance is capped (0.1 mm on the page by default) instead of doubling without limit. A shape no allowed tolerance can thin is cut into tiles that pave the same surface, its outline drawn apart as open polylines, so every path stays under the limit without losing a single vertex. Every polygon handed back by a repair is written, including when thinning a ring made it self-intersect. Symbol reading now scans every level and tells fill, line and marker levels apart, so a polygon outlined by a line level is no longer painted with its colour and a coloured line keeps its own colour. Filling now uses the nonzero rule with explicitly wound rings, so overlapping outlines add up instead of cancelling each other into a hole.
    1.3.1 No error is swallowed in silence any more: an extent with no image in the layer CRS now drops the spatial filter instead of reading nothing, and a renderer that refuses to be released is reported. Clears the Bandit security check of the QGIS plugin repository.
    1.3.0 Latitudes the map does not show no longer get a bar; each one is reported in the log.
    1.2.0 Parameters grouped by section in the dialog, fine settings moved to the advanced group, and the projection name written under the scale bar.
    1.1.0 Optional variable scale bar written into the same SVG, beside the map group: one bar per latitude, each measured along its own parallel, so a small-scale map keeps an honest scale where a single bar cannot. Distances are computed from the ellipsoid radius of curvature, which also works on sphere-based projections.
    1.0.3 Repository, homepage and tracker declared.
    1.0.2 Review pass: the map group is now placed by the frame scene transform, so a rotated frame lands where QGIS draws it; the toolbar icon is registered again; enum access works on both Qt 5 and Qt 6; layer type is tested by class rather than by a deprecated enum; 33 unit tests added.
    1.0.1 Automatic vertex reduction for shapes above a limit (default 10000), so Illustrator no longer drops very dense paths; simplification tolerance is set in millimetres on the page and reported in the log.
    1.0.0 First release.
